						INSTRUCTIONS

1. About CIDE+

	The extraction of non-trivial software product lines (SPL) from 
	a legacy application is a time-consuming task. First, developers 
	need to identify the components responsible for the implementation 
	of each program feature. Next, they must locate the lines of code 
	that reference the components discovered in the previous step. 
	Finally, they must extract such lines to independent modules or 
	they must annotate the lines in some way. In order to speed up 
	product line extraction, CIDE+ is a tool that supports a semi-automatic 
	approach to annotate the code of optional features in SPL. The 
	proposed approach is based on an existing tool to product line 
	development, called CIDE, that enhances standard IDE with the ability 
	to associate background colors to the lines of code that implement 
	a feature.


2. Installing CIDE+

	CIDE+ is available at http://homepages.dcc.ufmg.br/~mtov/cideplus/.
	Download the zip archive, unzip it, and copy the jar archive to the
	/plugins folder of your eclipse installation.
	
	If you want to browse the source code, it is available for checkout
	at http://code.google.com/p/cideplus/.


3. Configuring a project to use CIDE+

	After installing CIDE+, you need to configure a project to use it.
	Open eclipse, and right click in a java project in the package 
	explorer, go to 'Features', and click in 'Configure Features...'.
	
	A dialog will open, where you can add/remove features, give them a 
	name, and associate a color with each one. After configuring the 
	features, you're ready to annotate the code.
	

4. Execute the semi-automatic feature extraction process

	Right click in a java project in the package explorer, go to 'Features',
	and click in 'Automatic Feature Detection'. In the opened dialog,
	select the feature you want to extract, and click 'Next'. In the next
	page, select the seeds to be used in the feature extraction process.
	It can be packages, classes, methods, or fields. Hold <Ctrl> to select
	more than one seed. After doing that, click on 'Finish' to start the
	feature detection. 
	
	When the process finishes, your code will be annotated with the chosen
	color for the selected feature. Simply open a source file in the editor
	to view the colored code.

	
5. Complete the process manually

	The semi-automatic extraction isn't 100% accurate. It misses some 
	of the feature code. To solve this, you have to review the code, 
	and mark the remaining code manually. 
	
	To do that, select some text, right click in the editor area, go 
	to 'Features', and select the feature which the selected code 
	belongs to. Keep in mind that you can not annotate arbitrary pieces 
	of code, as the annotations are based in the code's AST.
	
	When you select some text and mark it, CIDE+ will try to find the 
	AST node where either the selection exactly matches the node, or 
	where the text covered before and after the node only consists of 
	white spaces or comments. If no such node exists, then the node that 
	encloses the selection is used.
	
	If you made a mistake, or the node found by CIDE+ isn't what you 
	want, you can undo the markings. The process is the same: select
	some colored code, right click on it, go to 'Features', and click
	in the selected feature you want to deselect. The process of transla-
	ting a selection to an AST node is the same, so if you don't see
	the feature you want to unmark checked, it's because the selection 
	mapped to a different node than the marked.
	

6. Export your project

	After marking the features, you can export your project, selecting
	which features you want to be in the exported code. To do this,
	right click in the project, in the package explorer, go to 'Features',
	and click in 'Export project...'. Select where the exported project
	will be saved and the features that will be in the exported code, 
	and click 'OK'.
	
	
7. More info

	More info about CIDE+ can be found at http://homepages.dcc.ufmg.br/~mtov/cideplus/
		

	
	

	
	
	
	
	   
	
	

	
	